Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to take a really quick look at adding objects to our scene.
Now in front of us are default scene.
We have a camera.
Objects.
If I go ahead and select that now we have a cube object.
And we also have a lamp or light object.
Now all of these have a position in our 3D world and that position is governed by this little orange
dots that all three have in the lamp in the cube.
It's in the center of them.
And for the camera it's where the camera comes to a point.
If we just move around slightly we can see who's got it there.
Now we won't just cover adding objects.
We're going to cover deleting them.
So let's go ahead and delete all default cube.
I'm going to select it and I'm going to go X to delete when you press the X key we get confirmation
come up and then we can go ahead and delete.
That's objects.
Now what we can do straightaway is go ahead and add a different object.
So we've got rid of our default cube.
We can go up to the Add menu at the top here go to mash and add a cube back in.
But now let's add something else.
Let's add in a U V sphere.
So we've got a ball in our scene now.
You can also see what's in your scene by going over to the outline.
If we go ahead and I'm going to widen this up a little and let's have a look by clicking this is an
arrow here we get a dropdown we've got camera.
And if we left click here you can see not only is it selected in the outline which can be a little bit
difficult to see the orange circle behind the objects but also it's selected in the 3D view and the
same is true with the light and the sphere.
And these are ordered by their name.
Now the question is why did that sphere appear in the center of the world.
Well objects will appear wherever the 3d cursor is placed.
Now if we have a look on the tool shelf on the left hand side if it's not there press the T key to make
it appear and we've got this little thing that looks like a target this red and white circle with crosshairs
in the middle.
If we go ahead and click that's if you make sure that surface projects has a tick in it we can click
on our sphere and if we zoom in and I'm going to just pan down ever so slightly.
We see that this cursor is now snapped to the surface of our cube.
Hey guys.
Mark here with a little update for you you might have noticed that if you've got your screen like mine
if I just press the TKD to bring back my side panel that you'll notice that you don't actually have
a head about tops when you actually go to select your cursor up in the top left corner here.
You can't actually select surface project you go to the right side of your window.
You might have this little drop down arrow at the top right corner.
If you click that it could reappear and you'll have all your buttons back at the top.
Alternatively you cast your eyes over to the right of my screen you'll notice the wrench and a screwdriver
icon also has surface project and the cursor icon with all of the options here as well.
With that in mind.
Back over to Mike.
And now if we go ahead and go add mash and let's go to a cube it will add it with the center of the
object where the 3d cursor is.
Now whilst you've added something in the lower left you'll see something that says add cube if we do
anything else to the cube that will disappear and change to something else.
This is the operator panel.
If we go ahead and open that up we've got an option.
And this is the one time option to edit.
That's primitive.
Now with a cube that doesn't matter too much because a cube is a cube is a cube but we can change its
size but if we go ahead and click on the edge of the cube here and go to add something else I'll a bit
more complex like a U V sphere again we see that we've got an option here to adjust how many segments
how many rings its radius and loads of other pre-determined options as well.
I'm going to make this a very very low low polygon sphere and as we can see is very low at the moment
I'm going to make it just a tiny bit smaller as well.
Now if you're clicking and dragging in these fields what you can do is hold down the shift key to really
slow down so you're not jumping all over the place and trying to really find assets you can hold down
shift and that will slow down how rapidly these values change.
So we've now got a couple of objects added to a scene and we can see in the outline that we've got a
series of spheres and a cube now sphere and Sphere 001 aren't great names we can rename streets in here
and type in the name.
So I call cool this one low poly sphere.
Now it is important to name things as you go.
Now you'll notice that underneath it also got renamed and that's because we're in the object data properties
and we have a closer look at that area in the future.
So the final thing I want to show you is having precise control over this 3d cursor at the moment we
can click on a surface of an object and it will place things there but it might be worthwhile generating
our objects in a very precise location in order to do that we'd need to position that 3d cursor more
precisely and that's true.
Let's say if we wanted another lamp in our scene we can't just click anywhere and it automatically go
to the right place because there's no surface for this 3d cursor to go to.
So if I go ahead and open up the 3D Ed properties panel by even go into the little arrow next to the
3D symbol or pressing the end key we will go into this one lots in the course.
And if I scroll down we've got an option for the 3D cursors position and here you can type in some world
coordinates.
So if I wanted to position a lamp directly above this object I would have an x location of 0 a y location
of 0.
And here we can see maybe an as Z location of three and then we can go to the ad menu or use the shortcuts
and go to light and we've got a couple of different types of lights but I'm going to add a point light
again just like the one we've got at the top here.
We'll cover lights and lamps in much more detail later on.
And there we go we may think that the other lamp is now redundant.
So in order to select it we're going to have to go back over to our tool shelf and I'm going to click
over so we're selecting items again.
And then I can select my lamp.
Press x to delete and off we go.
Okay everybody I've got a real quick challenge for you.
Just so we can practice what we've just learned.
I'd like you to load up the default scene delete the Cuban light from the scene and add in a U V sphere
and another light put it in a different place if you like but it has to be away and somewhere floating
in space like we've done with this one here pause video now and give that's a go
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's go ahead and do this real quick challenge something to open up our the false scene.
I'm going to delete my lamp.
I'm going to delete my cube.
Now the 3-D cursor is already in the middle of the scene so I can go ahead and add in my u v sphere
straight away.
Now for the 3d cursor for the lights needs to be placed in a certain position.
And we haven't taught you how to move things yet.
Well I can do here is set my 3-D cursor.
I'm going to lift it up and I'm going to move it out and across ever so slightly.
It's roughly the same as it was before.
I'm going to add in the type of light that point lights.
And there we go.
My scene has been recreated but this time with a goofy sphere.
OK so there we go.
Everybody well done for performing this very simple challenge but very important challenge.
These are some of the fundamental skills that you're going to be using again and again in blender and
it won't be long before you're generating some really amazing models from just using these basic skills.
But until then I'll see you in the next lecture.